Dear Mr vieira:

We have received the reports from our advisors on your manuscript, "Offline Mode for Corporate Mobile Client Security Architecture", which you submitted to Mobile Networks and Applications.

Based on the advice received, your manuscript could be reconsidered for publication should you be prepared to incorporate major revisions.  When preparing your revised manuscript, you are asked to carefully consider the reviewer comments which are attached, and submit a list of responses to the comments. Your list of responses should be uploaded as a file in addition to your revised manuscript.

In order to submit your revised manuscript electronically, please access the following web site: http://mone.edmgr.com/

Your login is:  tpbvieira
Your password is:  available at this link http://mone.edmgr.com/Default.aspx?pg=accountFinder.aspx&firstname=thiago&lastname=vieira&email_address=tpbvieira@gmail.com

Please click "Author Login" to submit your revision.

We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Sincerely yours,

     SM 188 – Sustainable Computing Techniques for Mobile Networks
     Mobile Networks and Applications

COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHOR:

Reviewer #1: The paper presents a reasonable approach to offline mode for reading secure documents on mobile clients without consuming much of the device resources under a restricted adversary model.  There remains some issues to clarify the presentation:
1. The adversary model seems not complete. (1) The adversary model mentioned in Subsection 6.1 is not clear because affirmative statements are mixed with negative statements. (2) May the adversary disable the TIM?
2. In Subsection 5.2, the description of ABE components is unclear: (1) typo of redundant double prime('') in PK, (2) no description of basic properties of bilinear paring function, (3) no description of the meanings of the notations w and s. (4) bad-form notation "for all i in {t_i}_M" (because "i" cannot belong to the set).
3. In Subsection 5.3, the description of SSS (modular secret sharing) is unclear: (1) Di is a typo, (2) the notation based on Chinese Remainder Theory (CRT) is not well presented, (3) the meanings of d, S, p_0, and p_1 are not clear, (4) What are the reasons for S being equivalent to s and s_1 in modulo p_0 and p_1, respectively?
4. In Subsection 6.2, it may be better to change "operations 1)-7)" to "actions 1)-7) (as mentioned in the offline mode)".
5. There is little description about how to retrieve the logs from the Galaxy mobile devices and the correctness of anomaly detection in the experiments.


Reviewer #3: 
1. In the related work, these following references need to be considered to enhance the completeness of the work. Heydari, Mohammad, et al. "An efficient password-based authenticated key exchange protocol with provable security for mobile client-client networks." Wireless Personal Communications 88.2 (2016). Mayrhofer, René. "An architecture for secure mobile devices." Security and Communication Networks 8.10 (2015): 1958-1970. Shila, Devu Manikantan, et al. "AMCloud: Towards a Secure Autonomic Mobile Ad Hoc Cloud Computing System." IEEE Wireless Communications(2016). Chang, Hyunseok, et al. "Design and Architecture of a Software Defined Proximity Cloud." Advances in Mobile Cloud Computing Systems (2015): 123. Xia, Yubin, et al. "TinMan: eliminating confidential mobile data exposure with security oriented offloading." Proceedings of the Tenth European Conference on Computer Systems. ACM, 2015. Kulkarni, Pallavi, and Rajashri Khanai. "Addressing mobile Cloud Computing security issues: a survey." Communications and Signal Processing (ICCSP), 2015 International Conference on. IEEE, 2015.
2. More discussions on the figure 1 and 2 should be added. The current version is not easy to understand.
3. The figure 8 should be explained more in detail.
4. The formula 5 should be discussed more, the related sentence should be introduced with more theoretical support. The set of obtained vectors y(q)m composes the zero mean matrix Y(q), then the zero mean covariance ma-trix ^R(q)=yy can be calculated as follows.
